No worry. If I get off the track leading to
something else that I wanted to weave in, if you
don't like the direction I'm going, jerk my chain.
Okay, okay, we're testing. This is March 7, 2002.
We're out at Harper's Ferry in Nantucket, and I
have the privilege and joy of interviewing Paul
Lemming. Paul, to begin this, give a biographical
sketch of young Paul Lemming and his family before
you came to enroll at Texas A&M. I was born in
Russellville, Arkansas, a little town at that
time of about 4,000 people. I was born on the 3rd of
October, 1929, exactly two weeks before the big
stock market crash leading to the Great
Depression. The town of Russellville was named
for my great-great-grandfather, John Russell,
who was a physician and founded the town. We left
Russellville in 1940, moved to Fort Smith,
Arkansas for a couple of years, and then moved to
Little Rock, Arkansas in 1943.
My father had been a traveling salesman
with McKesson Robbins Drug Corporation, and an
opening came up in the Houston office, which he
thought was better for our family, better
economically.
I started Albert Sidney Johnston Junior High
School in Houston. And shortly thereafter, we
moved to Nacogdoches when my dad got a permanent
territory. We set up housekeeping there in
December of 1943. We lived there until 1945,
February. And we moved to Beaumont, where my dad
got a better territory. And I finished high school
in Beaumont, Texas. And then... Which, I know what
high school, but this tape doesn't. Which high
school did you finish? Beaumont High School.
Beaumont High. How big was that, your senior
class, you remember? Our senior class was 256
seniors. And your special extracurricular
activities when you were at Beaumont High? I guess
you would say athletics. That was athletics and
studying and hunting and fishing, sleeping,
whatever I had the chance. And, of course, I liked
to date girls and dance. Now, I know that you were a
superb hurdler. What else, what other sports? I
was on the all-district football team. I was a
tailback on offense and played safety and
halfback on defense. Everybody played two ways in
those days. Now, you graduated in spring of 48. 48.
Why did you come to Texas A&M? What led you to be here
instead of some other place? I had 50-some-odd
offers of scholarships to different levels of
universities throughout the United States,
including the two military academies.
Oklahoma, Oklahoma A&M. It was in those days. And I
had pretty well narrowed the field down to Texas
A&M and the University of Texas. I thought an awful
lot of Coach Clyde Littlefield, who was the coach
at TU at that time, and also Colonel Andy, Frank
Anderson, who was the coach here at Texas A&M. And I
was having difficulty sorting the two out. Sports
writer's accounts of the battle were rather
ambiguous. Buddy Davis, Walter Davis, who later
became an All-American basketball player and an
Olympian in the high jump, he and I were two very
highly sought-after athletes, and we were having
trouble making up our minds. He was at Nederland?
He was at Nederland. And I had just about decided to
go to Texas. The state track meet was held on the
14th and 15th of May in 1948. And I went down there
with my team from Beaumont. And we had a very good
showing. And I won the high hurdles and the low
hurdles. New World's record, the low hurdles. And
on a lark I entered the 220 and placed fourth in the
state 220. And that night, since I was in Austin,
Coach Littlefield said, I want you to come out to
such and such a fraternity house and meet some of
the fraternity boys out there. They're going to be
your brothers. And I said, well, OK. I'd love to.
And so I went out to this. fraternity party, I don't
recall what the Greek letters were. And they said,
boy, we sure hope you pledge our fraternity. I
said, really, why is that? They said, boy, with
your academic credentials and your athletic
credentials, it'll sure look good on our roster.
And I said, why is that important? And they said,
well, fraternities are rated by the names and the
academic qualifications, athletic
qualifications that their pledges have, and it'd
sure make our fraternity look good. And I said, let
me make sure I got this straight. You want me to come
to the University of Texas not because I can get a
good education here, but because I'll make your
fraternity look good. Is that right? Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's right. I said, okay, thank you very
much. So I went back home, and I thought about that
for a while. And about the second week of June, I
called up Colonel Andy and asked him if the
scholarship offer was still open. He said, oh,
yes, it is. About that time, Charlie Babcock,
class of 1920, A&M, had been working on me pretty
hard. And he had started a letter writing campaign
to everybody he could think of. And all of a sudden
these letters start pouring in. What did those
letters in general, what did they say? They
said, talked about what a great school Texas A&M
was. They talked about the fraternity, of Texas
A&M.
They talked about what it meant
to be an Aggie. There's a spirit that can never be
told. That's about the size of it. I thought about
that. I have a book right over there. those letters
in it that Charlie Babcock put together for me. As
you look back on all those letters, did anybody
even hint at anything by the standards of that day
or this one that were inappropriate? Nobody
offered you any money? No, absolutely not. Nobody
offered a car or anything else? No. Nobody ever
even hinted at that kind of a thing. They just
talked about what an experience. Now, am I
over-quoting what you told me after the Austin
muster? What I thought and what I think I
remembered you told me that Charlie Babcock said
was that you're too fine a person to go to the
University of Texas. You ought to go to Texas A&M.
Well, pretty much those same words. Describe,
let's stay with Mr. Babcock a minute. Describe him
physically and personality and activities.
Charlie Babcock was about, oh, I'd say 5'8", 5'9",
slightly rotund,
receding hairline, jovial, always had a joke. In
fact, it's hard to talk to him sometimes because He
kept wanting to tell different kinds of jokes. But
a better-hearted person never existed. Now, he
worked at one of the refineries? No. Charlie
Babcock was Mr. Insurance in Beaumont. He had C.L.
Babcock and Sons Insurance Agency downtown on the
Pearlstein Building. And he had two sons who went
to A&M. One of them was a class of 45, and the other
one, another I think was a class of 42.
And they were killed early in their adult careers.
One of the boys was killed in a Jeep accident.
That's what I've heard. Overseas, and I don't
recall how the other boy died, but it was a very
tragic thing. He had no surviving children, did
he? No, he and Bess. He had no other surviving
children. Wait a minute. He may have had a
daughter. Now, my memory may be fuzzy, but Wirus
told me I thought that they had a daughter who died
of an unknown heart problem as a little kid on the
playground. That rings a bell. Because I then
ventured the thought that he transferred the love
he'd had for his children to his school, and that
was his, and that A&M, in effect, was his big
family. I'd say that's a very accurate
assessment. The, all right, did you let him know
when you decided you were going to come to A&M, did
you let him know?
He was the second person, I tell you. The first, no,
he was the third. The first person I told was
Colonel Andy. The second person I told was Clyde
Littlefield. And Charlie Babcock was the third.
How did each, what was the reaction of each of those
three? You called them, I presume?
I called Colonel Andy. He was delighted.
Coach Littlefield was coming through Beaumont to
talk to the Texas exes there in Beaumont. until his
visit. It was a funny and ironic thing about his
visit.
There was a big picture in the paper on the sports
page and a big story about all these letters and
everything. Coach Littlefield came out to my
house and he sat on the front porch with me and my
folks and I told him that I decided to go to Texas,
not to Texas A&M, and he said, well, why? And I had a
stack of letters. I said, there's over 300 letters
here. He said, we could have gotten you a thousand
letters. I said, yes, sir, but you didn't. And he
just got up and walked off. And then when you told
Mr. Babcock, what was his reaction?
I can't repeat what he said. He was very happy. All
right. Had you been up to visit the campus before
then, the A&M campus? Oh, yes, yes. What was your
impression of visiting when you came? What did it
seem like? Very friendly. I stayed in the dorm.
The athletes were not staying at Hart Hall at that
time. I came up here in the fall of 47 to attend a
football game. And it was the Arkansas game. And I
stayed in the dorm. And I went to the mess hall and I
ate with the troops on the training table. I mean,
it was just like being with a bunch of good old boys.
Now, which dorm did they live in then? I think it was
Leggett. Okay. And so they ate in Sevesa. Yeah. All
the athletes ate in Sevesa. The next year, all of
the athletes moved into Hart Hall, which was large
enough to accommodate everybody. At that time, we
were still getting a lot of veterans back. And, uh,
could you turn that off for a second? When you, when
you came to enroll, that freshman year, fall of 48.
Who brought you? How'd you get here? What did you
bring with you? My folks brought me, and we came by
car. I had a footlocker, and we called it a
go-to-hell bag, a little overnight thing about so
long you'd buy in Walgreens to use when you're
hitchhiking back and forth. to home or to a court
trip or something like that. What was in that
footlocker in that bag? The footlocker, there was
one bedspread, one pillow, two pillowcases, four
sheets,
toilet articles,
port shirt, a couple pairs of slacks, oh, I had, I
carried a suit on a hanger, and a couple pairs of
shoes, and various and sundry other small items of
that nature, and a dictionary, and a typewriter. A
typewriter, hey. Came in very handy. As you either
in the car coming up here or as they got ready to
leave, did your parents give you any special words
of advice?
If they did, I don't remember. They always found me
to be very self-reliant. I was an only child, and I
got all the love and affection in the world. So
there were no warnings or advice to go to class and
They never had to worry about that. Now, you had
done well in academics. Where were you in the
senior class at Beaumont High? I was number two.
Number two. Did they call it salutatorian in those
days? They did. I was not the salutatorian. I was
number two academically according to grade
point. Oh, okay. But the Beaumont Independent
School District required any of those who wanted
to stand for valedictorian or salutatorian to
take an additional test. And I told them I wasn't
going to take that test, and my record stood on its
own, and that I felt that the test that they
administered was too biased toward liberal arts
and literature. Although I was an avid reader, I
was I leaned more toward physics and math and that
kind of thing, and I felt, I just, I told them I
wouldn't untake it because it's biased. Now, I'm
looking not at hindsight now, but at the time you
arrived, how well did you think Beaumont High had
prepared you for college academically?
At the time I arrived, I wasn't sure because I
didn't know what the curriculum was going to be
here. But as I went more and more into the
curriculum, I felt that I had the best possible
education I could get. What did you think you were
going to major in when you first got here? I had
thought about majoring in engineering,
mechanical engineering. This was when I was still
in high school. But then as I looked at the
curriculum more and more and looked at what I was
going to have to devote my time to in athletics, I
decided that perhaps some other line of study
would be better. And at that time, Dean John Paul
Abbott, who was dean of the School of Arts and
Sciences, had convinced the administration that
we needed to start a separate business school
Business courses had been taught under the aegis
of the arts and sciences. And he formed a
department, not a school, we weren't big enough to
have a school, a department of business
administration, and I was in the first class. Oh,
okay, good. Now, in high school you had played
football. Were you planning to go out for any other
sports other than track here at A&M? Oh, I
definitely wanted to play football. But I was the
first pure track athlete to come to Texas A&M on a
four-year scholarship. Now, one other person
preceded me, but he was not a track man. He was a
field man. His name was George Cadera, class of
1950. K-A-D-E-R. K-A-D-E-R-A, George Cadera.
What did your scholarship, in fact, consist of?
Room, board, books, tuition, fees? And $10 a month
for laundry. Okay. As a matter of fact— Whoop,
whoop, remember you've got that on. Yeah. Oh,
okay. That's what I made sure I had.
Oh, oh. As a matter of fact, as the saying goes,
funny you should ask. Oh, you saved all those
goodies. Here is my registration. My goodness.
For the fall semester of 1950. Board, $40.80.
Matriculation, $25. Medical, that's with good
old mom, Claghorn, $5.50. Student activities, I
don't know what that is, $1. Student activities,
$9.20. Key deposit, $1. Room rent, $11.35. And
laundry, $3.65. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. And just as an
aside, when I got my senior ring, it cost $29.84.
Well, I
have a request for you to consider. Whenever you
decide that you want to part with those, please
pass them on to the archives in the Cushing Library
where they would be preserved forever. I'd be very
surprised if they didn't have it already. Well,
but they don't have, you'd be surprised at how some
of that stuff. If they don't have it, they're
welcome to. Because they'd love to. That question
that you asked me, I warned you that I might get off
on a track. No, that's good. What was that original
question again? It was about what the scholarship
consisted of. Well, you answered that yourself.
In those days, where did you get the books?
Physically, where were they? We got them from old
Army Luke. The procedure was that you went down to
the athletic department. Bones Urban was the AD at
that time. And Dog Dawson was the assistant AD for
business matters, I'll call it. and you went down
to Dog's office and you got a chit from Dog and you
took that chit up to H.L. Heaton's registrar
office and you said, Mr. Heaton, here it is and he
would make out a receipt like this and give it to you
and Dog would also give you another chit and you
would go up to J.E. Lupo, the old Army Lou's office
only store at that time at Northgate, right next
door to Doc Lipscomb's drugstore. And you'd say,
hoo-ah! And you'd hear a hoo-ah from the back and
you'd take that chit up there and, Lou, I need to get
some books. Yes, sir. What do you need? Here's my
registration form. Give me the books that I need
for these courses. And he'd produce them. And at
the end of the semester, you'd turn the books back
in, get a chip, take the chip back down to the
Dawson, turn it in, athletic department would get
credit for that. Now, back to getting here, when
you arrived, how did you learn where your room was
and what outfit you were in and so forth? I'd
already been assigned that. I got a letter from
Colonel Andy, which is in that book of letters and
also in my scrapbooks, which are by your left elbow
there, and it told everything that you should
bring, the recommended things. And it said, don't
worry about a whole lot of clothes. The Corps is
going to take care of that. And they did. How long
did it take after you got here to go get those
clothes? How many? Well,
I think about the next day after I got here, they
took us over to the Corpsmaster, and we were issued
the Army officer's uniforms. And then after that,
I'll
digress slightly. All of the athletic freshmen
were housed on campus. Non-athletic freshmen
were housed out at the Bryan Army Air Force Base
annex. So you were the only freshman on campus? We
were the only freshman on campus, and there's
another tale to that. But for the first week, we had
freshman orientation, and it was all done out at
Bryan Annex. It wasn't logistically feasible to
do two sets of... Oh, describe that. That's your
orientation. We had freshman orientation out
there, and basically what they did was give us a
series of tests I mean, each high school forwarded
your transcripts to the college, but at that time
there was no standardized form of identifying
students or what they could do. The degree of
difficulty level of the courses they took in high
school, some little one-room high schools would
have different curricula from the larger high
schools, such as the one that I went to. And we took
tests for two or three days out there and we got
acquainted with campusology, what we would be
expected to know. We were issued a little booklet
about four inches by six inches called the
Cadence. And in there was the history of Texas A&M
as well as pictures of all of the buildings on
campus a description of the buildings, when they
were built, and who they were named for, and you
better, by God, remember that. And they
emphasized that. Fortunately, there were no
upperclassmen, pissheads, as we call the
sophomores. They kept them away from us so we could
concentrate on what we were out there for, and that
was to learn what was expected of us at Texas A&M.
And we started drilling right off, and I had a leg up
because I'd done all that kind of stuff at Beaumont
High. Our PE coach was a former Navy commander,
World War II, and he gave us all of the manual of arms
and the squads left, squads right, about face. We
had all of that, so that was not a problem for me. A
lot of the boys from the country, they didn't know
their left foot from their right foot, and they had
a little bit of difficulty. But the sophomores
straightened them out a little bit later. So
you're out there four days, then you come back. We
went back and forth by bus every day. Oh, okay. How
long was it before the upperclassmen got to the
campus and you all got into the real world of being
an Aggie freshman? They got here the week after we
did, after our orientation was over. We reported
something like the 7th of September, and the
upperclassmen reported around the 14th or 15th.
And of course, keep in mind, this was the first year
that freshman athletes had lived on campus, and
the regular freshman class was separated out to
the air base, and that made it logistically
difficult for the upperclassmen to find freshmen
to harass. And the senior athletes made it known to
the other upperclassmen very quickly, these are
our freshmen, you keep your damn hands off of them.
If anybody's going to beat ass, we're going to beat
ass. Now, y'all were in what dorm? Hart Hall.
Describe the routine, particularly your room,
and what it was like. I lived in I-9 Hart Hall. Hart
Hall was a
U-shaped building with the bottom of the U
truncated on both sides. It was
three stories, and it had ramps. ramps A through I,
and there was a stairwell going up the middle of
each ramp, and there were two rooms on each side,
no, four rooms on each side on each floor, and the
rooms shared a bath. So that you're on the I ramp
third floor? That's right. And... Who was your
fish old lady and what? Initially, my fish old lady
was Robert Schaefer, Buddy Schaefer, who was a
football player and track man. And they just kind
of threw us all into, they matched us up. They
didn't do it alphabetically. I don't know what
method Colonel Andy used for the track people, but
he said, If you want to change roommates, if you
know somebody from another town, you go right
ahead. Just keep me informed so I'll know where you
are. And then he asked me later on, after about
three or four days rooming with Buddy, Buddy had
found a hometown buddy that he'd prefer to room
with. And Colonel Landy asked me if I would like to
room with his son, Wally.
And I said, well, sure. So Wally and I started out
rooming together for a couple of three weeks. And
then a hometown friend of mine who was a sophomore,
Walter Evans, he had been a football and track
teammate for my high school. And he, his daddy, was
a car dealer. And Walter would bring an old clunker
used car off of his daddy's car to school. And since
we were from the same hometown,